Good morning.
Welcome, everyone.
If you have a Bible, go ahead and take it out.
We are continuing our study through the books of Samuel, and we find ourselves in 2 Samuel, chapter 20 this morning.
As always, here at Calvary, if you need a Bible, just raise your hand.
We have some amazing leaders that will make sure that you get one.
There's a couple reasons why we want you to have a Bible, number one, so that you know I'm not making this stuff up.
This is the Word of God.
But we believe this has the power to change your life.
Seeing the gospel on the pages of scripture has transformed my life in ways that I can't even begin to tell you.
And so we want you to have a Bible for yourself so you can see the words on the pages.
Like Pastor John said, my name is Jav and I get to serve at our Boca campus.
It's an honor to get to be here today and open the Word of God with you.
I was reminded this week of a quote from the great Alistair bag when he said, the Word of God
does the work of God through the Spirit of God in the people of God.
That's why we're here.
Every time we gather as a church, we open up this book, we read these stories and the Lord speaks to us.
Something powerful happens when we're here in this room to study God's Word.
I want to give a little warning to all of the parents in the room.
If you have young kids in here with you today,
This chapter that we're gonna read contains a couple stories that are a little bit more graphic in nature.
So I wanna let you know, as parents, we have an amazing Calvary Kids Ministry.
They would love to welcome your kids with you, but I wanna give you that warning upfront.
However, next weekend is gonna be the opposite.
We're inviting all of the kids, all of the students, into the sanctuary with us, or we're calling it next-gen weekend.
So if you have teenagers, if you have young kids, the service is gonna be designed for them to be able to engage.
And we would love for you to join us for that weekend.
It's going to be really special.
But for today, you're stuck with me.
And because of that, we need some extra prayer.
So we're going to go before the Lord and pray and ask Him to speak to us through His Word.
Let's pray together.
Heavenly Father, we thank You for Your goodness to us.
That Your mercies are new every morning.
And we needed Him this morning as much as we needed Him yesterday, and we'll need them again tomorrow.
So we say thank You for the sacrifice of Jesus.
that gives us grace and forgiveness today.
We approach your throne with humility, but your word also tells us we can approach your throne with boldness, because we have a God who listens to us.
Thank you that you hear the prayers of your people.
So today we pray and ask for you to speak to us, like children that are gathered by the feet of their father, ready to listen to what their father has to say.
That's us today.
We wanna hear from you.
If there's anyone here
who needs to be built up and encouraged today, I pray that your word would do that.
If there's anyone here who needs to be comforted today by the power of your word, I pray you would do that, Lord.
And if there's anyone here who needs to be convicted, if there's correction in our hearts, even my own, Lord, if there's anything in my heart that needs to be corrected or shifted to fall in alignment with your word, I ask you to do that today in all of us.
Speak to us by your grace.
We pray in Jesus' name.
Amen.
I want to begin this morning with a question.
What kind of legacy do you want to leave?
I've been thinking about that question a lot in my own life over the last two weeks.
How do I want my kids and my wife to remember me?
How do I want those I served with to remember me?
I think it's an important question that we all need to ask.
You know why?
Because every day, you're building that legacy, whether you realize it or not.
The conversations you have, the decisions you make, every single choice is building the kind of lifestyle that will leave a legacy here on the surface.
So how do you wanna be remembered?
What kind of legacy do you wanna leave behind?
The reason I start with that question is because of the chapter that we're gonna read.
Here in second Samuel 20, David is probably starting to ask those same questions about legacy.
Most scholars would believe at this point in time, David is around 70 years old.
Today, we're going to see how he passes off his faith and his leadership to the next generation in Israel.
Now, before we dive into the text, let's recap where we are in the story.
David has been through a lot, hasn't he?
He's been through civil war.
His own son Absalom rebelled against him.
They had this great battle.
Absalom has been killed.
David has mourned for his son, and now he's returning back home to Jerusalem.
The true king is coming back, which is a great thing.
You think all is well, right?
However,
There's a dispute happening in Israel between the tribe of Judah and the tribes of Israel, and that's summed up at the end of chapter 19.
I want to read verse 43 to you because it kind of sets us up for what we're going to read today.
2 Samuel 19, 43, it says, the men of Israel answered the men of Judah, we have 10 shares in the king, so we have a greater claim on David than you have.
Why then do you treat us with contempt?
Weren't we the first to speak of bringing back our king?
What's happening here?
The men of Judah and the men of Israel are fighting over who has a greater right to honor David.
Isn't that silly?
Like, we love David more than you.
We wanted to bring him back first.
No, we love him more than you.
We want to do our honor.
And they're fighting each other over who gets to honor the king more.
But that tension that's building, it's only going to get worse.
David already suffered through one civil war, and he's about to endure another one.
Look at me, 2 Samuel 20, verse 1.
Now a troublemaker named Shiba, the son of Bakiri, a Benjamin, happened to be there.
He sounded the trumpet and shouted, we have no share in David, no part in Jesse's son.
Every man to his tent, Israel.
So all the men of Israel deserted David to follow Shiba, the son of Bakiri, but the men of Judah stayed by their king all the way from the Jordan to Jerusalem.
Let's stop right there.
Man, David can't catch a break, can he?
One after the other, people are rebelling against him, starting an entire war against him.
And this time, it's a man named Shiba.
He's a Benjamin.
And all he does is sound a trumpet and shout, and everyone deserts David to follow him.
That must have been some trumpet.
I don't know what that was, but he got everyone in Israel to desert David.
And you would be wise to ask the question, how is it possible that the people of Israel desert the greatest king they've ever had?
David is the greatest king in Israel's history, and all of these people are just like that, just some trumpet and some shouting, and all of a sudden they abandon him.
How is that possible?
Well, there's two factors at play here.
Number one, this happens because it's a consequence of David's sin with Bathsheba.
If you remember back in 2 Samuel, chapter 12, Nathan prophesied from the Lord all of the things that would happen to David because of his sin,
One of them sounds like this in verse 10.
Now therefore, the sword will never depart from your house because you despised me and took the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your own.
It sounds like the sword is not departing from David's house, is it?
He's continuing to have this tension in these battles as a consequence of his sin, but there's another factor at play here.
Verse one starts with calling Sheba, this traitor, a troublemaker.
Don't you love how the Bible translates things?
This troublemaker named Sheba.
But that word that is translated to troublemaker in the Hebrew, it's most often translated to the word accuser, but it's also used all throughout the Old Testament to describe guess who?
Satan.
So what's happening here?
This isn't just the consequence of David's sin.
Satan is actively working to pull God's people away from the true king.
And listen, church, the same thing is happening in our world today.
Satan is actively working to pull God's people away from their true king.
Guess what?
Jesus is the greatest king that you could ever possibly have.
He has been nothing but good to you.
He has built you up.
He's given you hope and a future.
And yet you have a very real enemy that wants nothing more than to distract you away from Jesus.
And I am surprised how easily God's people turn away from the true king to Satan's distractions.
Someone blows a trumpet and starts shouting and we're like, ooh, look at this.
And we just walk away from Jesus so easily, just like the men of Israel did with David.
Listen, don't fall for the enemy's trap.
Don't fall for the schemes.
Don't abandon your king so easily.
He loves you.
He's the greatest path that you could ever walk down is walking in obedience to Jesus.
Don't be so easily tricked.
Don't be so easily fooled.
I love how this ends in verse two.
It says, the men of Judah stayed by their king all the way from Jordan to Jerusalem.
Christians in their own listen, be like the men of Judah, be the ones who stick by your king.
And I'll even say this, even if nobody else does, even if you're the only one in your school, the only one in your office, the only one in your family group chat that's walking in obedience to Christ, stay loyal to him, because if you do, you won't regret it.
Let's keep reading in verse three.
We're gonna read through verse 13, parents, this is the graphic part.
That's what it says.
When David returned to his palace in Jerusalem,
He took the 10 concubines that he had left to take care of the palace, and he put them in a house under guard.
He provided for them, but had no sexual relations with them.
And they were kept in confinement to the day of their death, living as widows.
Then the king said to Amasa, some and the men of Judah to come to me within three days and be here yourself.
But when Amasa went to summon Judah, he took longer than the time the king had set for him, verse six.
David said to Abishai, now Shiba, son of the Kiri will do us more harm than Absalom did.
Take your master's men and pursue him, or he will find fortified cities and escape from us.
So Joab's men and the Carathites and the Pelithites and all the mighty warriors went out under the command of Abishai.
They marched out from Jerusalem to pursue Shiba, son of Bakiri.
Verse eight, while they were at the Great Rock in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them.
And Joab was wearing his military tunic and strapped over it at his waist was a belt with a dagger in its sheath.
As he stepped forward, it dropped out of its sheath, and Joab said to Amasa, how are you, my brother?
Then Joab took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him.
Amasa was not on his guard against the dagger in Joab's hand, and Joab plunged it into his belly, and his intestines spilled out on the ground.
Without being stabbed again, Amasa died.
Then Joab and his brother Abishai pursued Shiba, son of Bakiri, and one of Joab's men stood beside Amasa and said, whoever favors Joab and whoever is for David,
Let him follow Joab.
Verse 12, Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the middle of the road.
And the man saw that all the troops who came to a halt there.
And when he realized that everyone who came up to Amasa stopped, he dragged him from the road into a field and threw a garment over him.
And after Amasa had been removed from the road, everyone went on with Joab to pursue Shiba, the son of Bakiri.
And all God's people said, yikes.
All right, where do we even start with this?
Let's just go to the beginning.
As soon as David returns to the palace in Jerusalem, he finds the 10 concubines that he had left there to take care of the palace.
But remember, these are the 10 women that his son Absalom had assaulted when he rebelled against David.
And so what David does is he puts them in confinement and they live the rest of their lives as widows.
It's a sad ending for these women who did absolutely nothing wrong.
Then David decides to put together a military plan to go after this traitor named Sheba.
He knows that if he waits too long, Sheba's gonna get away and he can get inside of a fortified city.
And once he's inside the walls of a city, it's gonna be a lot more difficult to get ahold of him and to stop him.
And so he calls for a man named Amasa.
Amasa was Absalom's military commander.
David had promoted him to his military commander.
Problem is, Amasa is a terrible leader.
When David calls for him, homeboy doesn't even show up.
He doesn't even care to come to the party.
He takes way too long.
David doesn't have time to wait.
He needs to go after Shiba now.
So he sends his two most trusted men, Joab and his brother Abishai.
I would love to have a conversation with these guys.
I'd prefer that conversation to happen from a distance, but I would love to at least talk to them and see how all of this went down.
I mean, they're David's most loyal men.
From the very beginning, they've stood by David's side.
But they're also a little bit impulsive.
Joab and Abishai are a little savage in nature in the way they go about things.
And that's clearly seen in this story.
Joab is very deceptive.
And he deceives Amasa in order to take his life.
Remember, Amasa was the one who succeeded him as the military commander.
So Joab likely saw this as an opportunity to take the life of his enemy and to get his job back.
So what does he do?
He tricks Amasa in three different ways, pretending
to be for him and pretending to be friendly.
The first thing is as he goes to greet him, his dagger falls out of its sheath, giving the illusion that he's unarmed.
The second thing is he reaches out and he grabs his beard to kiss him, which might seem really weird in our culture.
But back then, this was just a friendly Jewish welcome.
And the last thing is he grabbed his beard with his right hand, which was his fighting hand.
Amasa would have never expected an attack from a dagger on the ground with the left hand.
and he takes the life of his enemy.
And after that happens, he gathers all of the men together and he forms this alliance that we're gonna go take out Sheba, this traitor, and we're gonna go win back our country for King David.
And all of these men align with Joab and decide to follow him.
Look at what happens next, verse 14.
We'll read through the end of the chapter.
It says, Sheba passed through all the tribes of Israel to Abel Beth Makah
and through the entire region of the bakirai to gather together and follow him.
All the troops with Joab came in besieged Shiba in a bell, Beth Makah.
They built a siege ramp up to the city and it stood against the outer fortifications.
While they were battering the wall to bring it down, a wise woman called from the city.
Listen, listen, tell Joab to come here so I can speak to him.
He went toward her and she asked, are you Joab?
I am, he answered.
She said, listen to what your servant has to say.
I'm listening," he said.
She continued, long ago they used to say, get your answer at a bell and that settled it.
We are the peaceful and faithful in Israel.
You are trying to destroy a city that is a mother in Israel.
Why do you want to swallow up the Lord's inheritance?
And I love what Joab says in verse 20.
Far be it from me, Joab replied.
Far be it from me to swallow up or destroy.
Pause right there.
Didn't he just swallow up and destroy someone a couple of verses earlier?
You love Joab.
He's like, me?
Kill anybody?
No, never.
Verse 21.
That is not the case, he said.
A man named Shiba, the son of Bakiri from the hill country of Ephraim, has lifted up his hand against the king and against David.
Hand over this one man and all withdraw from the city.
The woman said to Joab, his head will be thrown to you from the wall.
Then the woman went to all the people with her wise advice and they cut
off the head of Shiva, the son of Bekiri, and threw it to Joab.
So he sounded the trumpet, and his men dispersed from the city, each returning to his home, and Joab went back to the king in Jerusalem.
Joab was over Israel's entire army, but Naya, the son of Jehoedah, was over the Karathites and the Pelithites.
Adonarayim was in charge of forced labor.
Jehosaphat, the son of Aliyud, was a recorder.
Shiva was secretary, Zaidok, and Abiathar were priests, and Ayra, the gyreite, was David's priest.
Okay, a lot happened here.
Let's break this down.
So David's greatest fear becomes a reality.
Shiba has made his way inside the walls of a fortified city called Abel.
And now that he's saved within these walls, most of the army would have said, oh, we lost our opportunity.
There's no way we're going to get him now.
But if there's anything we know about Joab, he's not going to accept defeat that easily.
So he sets up a siege.
And you're all very familiar with the ancient practice of besiegement.
You've been on a siege recently?
No?
Okay.
So here's what would happen in a siege.
This is probably like what you've seen in movies.
They would establish a perimeter and they would take some large object and start ramming it against the walls or the gates of a city.
Yes, you've seen that in movies.
However, in movies, they always seem to get in.
I don't know why that is.
You ever watched a movie where they ram a tree trunk against the gate and they don't get in?
Every time they seem to break down.
However, in the ancient practice of a siege,
Penetrating the walls of a city was almost impossible.
That usually didn't happen.
So what would the army do?
At that point, it became a waiting game.
They would wait outside the city.
Nothing was allowed in and nothing was allowed out.
Over time, the people would starve to death and they would give the army whatever they wanted.
There's records in ancient history of sieges that lasted five, even 10 years.
And if there's anything we know about Joab,
He can wait.
So he's just sitting outside.
He's like, I'll wait here until you give me what I want.
And there's a wise woman in this city.
And I love what she does.
She's like, you know what?
We could suffer under this years and years and years of devastation or someone can go talk to that guy.
She goes, no one's gonna do it.
I'll do it.
So she goes to the wall, picture this.
She's crying out to the commander of the king's army.
She's like, listen to me, listen to me.
What do you want?
We'll give you whatever you want."
And Joab pretty much answers her and says, listen, ma'am, we don't want any trouble.
We just want the traitor that's in your midst.
There's a guy in there who's rebelled against the king.
That's the only reason we're here.
And so this wise woman goes back to the leaders of the city and she says, listen, guys, we can suffer years of unnecessary pain under siege or we can cut off the head of this traitor and throw it over the wall.
What do you think?
I doubt that was a very long conversation in the leadership council at Abel.
They make a quick decision, they cut off Shiba's head, and they throw it over the wall, and everyone goes about their day.
It's crazy to think that they would rather kill the traitor in their midst than suffer years of unnecessary pain.
There's a great Puritan commentator by the name of John Trapp, and he gives us a spiritual analogy out of this whole situation.
Listen to what he says.
Every man is a city enclosed, and every sin is a traitor that lurks within those walls.
God calleth for Shiba's head, neither hath he any quarrel to us for our person but for our sin.
And if we love the head of our traitor above the life of our soul, we shall justly perish in the vengeance."
What is he saying?
Listen, there is a traitor inside every single one of us.
There is sin inside the walls of your heart, and it is wreaking havoc on your soul.
And God will not just sit by and watch sin ruin your life.
If it feels like you're under siege right now, like there's this pressure on you, your sin is heavy on your heart.
You're sitting under the conviction of the Holy Spirit.
God is doing that because He loves you.
God is pursuing you in His grace.
He has set up a perimeter around your life and says, I'm not here to destroy you.
I just want the traitor.
I just want the traitor inside your walls.
So listen, you have a choice to make.
You can suffer through years of unnecessary pain or you can cut off the traitor's head and throw it over the wall.
The choice is yours.
You have a decision.
You might say, well, Jaden,
Cut off the traitor's head.
I mean, that's a radical concept.
That's like Old Testament stuff, right?
No, this same concept is repeated over and over again in the New Testament, too.
And it uses almost the same language.
Listen to this.
This is Paul in Romans 8, 13.
For if you live according to the flesh, you will die.
But if by the spirit, you what?
Put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live.
Paul seems to suggest this is a matter of life and death, whether you kill the traitor or not.
He says it this way, Colossians 3.5, put to what?
Death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature.
Sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires, and greed, which is idolatry.
Listen, I don't know what traitor is inside the walls of your life, but whatever form it takes, whether it's sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires, greed, which is idolatry, it's time that the traitor dies.
It's time that its head is cut off and thrown over the wall.
And when you do that, I promise you will experience the joy and the freedom of walking and obedience to Christ.
But the longer you live with it, the longer you let that traitor live, the more disappointed you will become, and the more miserable your life will be.
It's time the traitor dies.
Experience the joy and the freedom of walking with Christ.
Now look at chapter 21, we're gonna read the first 14 verses together.
I want you to see the whole picture of this story as it unfolds.
The army has returned back to Jerusalem, and now there's even more devastation in David's life.
Look at verse one of chapter 21.
During the reign of David, there was a famine for three successive years.
So David sought the face of the Lord.
And the Lord said, it is on account of Saul in his blood-stained house.
It's because he put the Gibeonites to death.
The king summoned the Gibeonites and spoke to them.
Now the Gibeonites were not part of Israel, but were survivors of the Amorites, for the Israelites had sworn to spare them, but Saul and his zeal for Israel and Judah had tried to annihilate them.
So David asked the Gibeonites, what shall I do for you?
How shall I make what?
Atonement so that you will bless the Lord's inheritance.
Verse four, the Gibeonites answered him, we have no right to demand silver or gold from Saul or his family, nor do we have the right to put anyone to death in Israel.
So what do you want me to do for you, David asked?
They answered the king.
As for the man who destroyed us and plotted against us so that we have been decimated and have no place anywhere in Israel, let seven of his male descendants be given to us to be killed, and there's bodies exposed before the Lord at Gibia of Saul, the Lord's chosen one.
So the king said, I will give them to you.
The king spared Mephibosheth, son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the oath before the Lord between David and Jonathan, the son of Saul.
But the king took Armani and Mephibosheth, the two sons of Aya's daughter, Rispa, whom she had born to Saul, together with the five sons of Saul's daughter, Marab, who she had born to Adriel, the son of Barzillai, the Mahalithite, and he handed them over to the Gimini to kill them and expose their bodies on a hill before the Lord.
All seven of them fell together,
and they were put to death during the first days of the harvest, just as the barley harvest was beginning, verse 10.
Rispa, daughter of Aya, took sackcloth and spread it out for herself on a rock.
From the beginning of the harvest till the rain poured down from the heavens on the body, she did not let the birds touch them by day, or the wild animals by night.
And when David was told what Aya's daughter, Rispa, Saul's concubine had done, he went and took the bones of Saul and his son, Jonathan, from the citizens of J. Beshgiliad.
They had stolen their bodies from the public square at Beth Sean, where the Philistines had hung them after they struck Saul down on Gilboa.
David brought the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan from there, and the bones of those who had been killed and exposed were gathered up.
They buried the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan in the tomb of Saul's father, Kish, at Zayla and Benjamin, and did everything the king commanded.
After that, God answered what?
Prayer and behalf of the land.
So chapter 21 begins,
with a three-year-long famine in the land.
Now in those days, a famine was almost always due to a drought.
They didn't have irrigation systems back then.
So if it didn't rain, you couldn't grow crops.
If you couldn't grow crops, you couldn't eat food.
And so the people are beginning to be hungry.
They're experiencing great loss.
And David does the right thing.
He sought the face of the Lord.
He goes to the Lord,
and he prays, God, why is this happening to us?
And the Lord gives him a very clear answer in verse one.
It is on account of Saul and his blood-stained house because he put the Gibeonites to death.
Now, in order to understand this, we need to rewind 350 years all the way to the book of Joshua.
When Joshua was leading God's people into the Promised Land, he was taking ground.
He was fighting all of the Canaanite nations that were in the Promised Land so that Israel could inhabit them.
God told Joshua, don't make a treaty with any of these nations that live right here in the Promised Land because you're going to have to defeat them.
However, the Gibeonites bamboozled Joshua.
They showed up
As if they were coming from a faraway land.
Their clothes were torn.
They had dirt on their sandals.
They put no water in their cantines.
And they showed up, we've come from a faraway land to make a treaty with you.
And Joshua agreed, made a treaty with them, that Israel would not defeat them.
However, they weren't from faraway.
They were from right down the block.
But God told Joshua, you gave them your word.
God cares about what we give our word.
We have to honor it.
Joshua made a promise in a treaty that he would not attack them.
Fast forward 350 years later to King Saul.
King Saul, we know, is a little bit impulsive and prideful in his leadership.
And it says, out of his zeal for Israel and Judah, he attacked the Gibeonites and put them to death.
He went against a treaty that Israel had made years earlier and sinned against the Lord by going against Israel's promise.
And now God says, this famine in the land is because of what Saul did.
So what does David do?
He seeks to make it right.
It says that he seeks to make atonement on behalf of the people.
So he calls the Gibeonites in, he says, what do we need to do to settle this debt?
How do we make this right?
And what's their answer?
They want seven descendants, seven sons of Saul to be killed.
Anything.
There's no way David's gonna agree to that, right?
But he agrees to it a little more quickly than we would like him to.
He simply just says, yes, and makes it happen.
Now, we don't know exactly why David agreed so quickly, but we know this.
He did it because he cared about his people.
He had an opportunity to write a wrong from many, many years earlier, and he decides to go forward with it.
And on a larger scale, you could say this, David understood that sin had to be atoned for.
There is a price that must be paid for sin.
Did you know that?
Even in the New Testament, Romans 6, it says, the wages of sin is what?
Death.
Sin requires payment, someone laying down their life so that the sin can be forgiven.
And after these lives are laid down, their bodies are sacrificed.
God answers prayer on behalf of the land.
One of the cool things about this story is it isn't just true history of something that happened 3,000 years ago.
This story is pointing ahead
to the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Think about some of these details.
Men laid down their lives as atonement for sins that they did not commit.
Kind of like Jesus Christ, who laid down his life as an atoning sacrifice for sins that he did not commit.
At the moment of death, the payment is accepted and God's wrath is satisfied.
When Jesus said it is finished, the payment was accepted and God's wrath was satisfied fully in Christ.
What happened after the men died?
After their bodies were exposed, there was an outward symbol in the sky.
The rain that came down from the heavens was an outward sign that the payment was received.
And when Jesus died on the cross, there was an outward symbol in the sky.
The sky turned black.
Everything went dark as a symbol that the payment had been received in the eyes of God.
The bodies of these men are displayed on a what?
A hill for everyone to see.
Jesus Christ was sacrificed on a cross.
crucified and placed on a what?
A hill for everyone to see.
And finally, this woman, Rispa, shows up to care for the bodies of the men who lay down their lives, kind of like the women showed up at the tomb three days later to care for the body of Jesus, only to find that the body of Jesus wasn't there because he was resurrected in power and seated at the right hand of God.
Listen, this story, even from 3,000 years ago, is pointing us to the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
These Old Testament stories are amazing, and they teach us so many things.
But so often, if you look closely, they're pointing us to what Jesus would do.
We're going to close in verse 15.
We'll read to the end of the chapter.
It says this.
Once again, there was a battle between the Philistines and Israel, and David went down with his men to fight against the Philistines, and he became what?
Exhausted.
Anishbi Benab, one of the descendants of Raffa, whose bronze spearhead weighed 300 shekels and who was armed with a new sword, said he would kill David.
But Abishai the son of Zoriah came to David's rescue.
He struck the Philistine down and killed him.
Then David's men swore to him, saying, never again will you go out to battle with us, so that the lamp of Israel will not be extinguished.
Verse 18.
In the course of time, there was another battle with the Philistines at Gabb.
At that time, Sebecchai, the Hushatite,
killed Saf, one of the descendants of Raffa.
In another battle with the Philistines at Gabb, Elinah of Jair, the Bethlehemite, killed the brother of Goliath the Gittai.
Remember him?
Who had a spear with a shaft like a weaver's rod.
In still another battle, which took place at Gath, there was a huge man with six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot, 24 in all.
In all God's people said, gross.
And he was also a descendant from Raffa.
Last verse, verse 21.
When he taunted Israel, Jonathan, the son of Shami'i, David's brother, killed him.
And these four were descendants of Raffa and Gath, and they fell at the hands of David and his men.
What a way to end the chapter, huh?
David's men just kicking butt and taking names out here.
David goes out to fight alongside his men, which is an important statement, because remember, at this point, how old is David?
70 years old.
He could probably still swing a sword, but I'm willing to bet not like he used to.
And he becomes exhausted on the battlefield.
So David's men say, listen, we don't want you to go out and fight with us anymore.
We don't want the lamp of Israel to be extinguished.
Think about how hard that must have been for David.
He's the one who killed Goliath.
Are you kidding?
It's like I'm the one who fought all these great battles for Israel, but David understood something.
His legacy did not lie in the giant that he killed for his generation.
His legacy was in the men that he raised up to kill giants for future generations of Israel.
There were men that were being trained as warriors in the kingdom of God to face giants in their day.
I love how verse 17, David's men call him the lamp of Israel.
They call him that because he lit the way for future warriors to walk down in future generations.
And because of David's investment, because he didn't let his legacy just die with him, he raised up other young men as warriors.
And because of that investment, the kingdom of Israel is in good hands.
I love what G. Campbell Morgan had to say about this.
He said, let those who after long service find themselves waning in strength be content to abide with the people of God still shining for them as a lamp and thus enabling them to carry on the same divine enterprises.
Such action in the last days of life is also great and high service.
God is called every single one of us to pass on a legacy to the next generation.
Because guess what?
There's still giants out there that we're fighting today, aren't there?
There are still battles to be won.
There are still victories to claim in the name of our God.
But because of the investment of this generation into the next one, I believe that the kingdom of God is in good hands.
There's a generation rising up right now of young people who love Jesus.
Did you know that?
God's doing something with the young people of our church and our city.
It's amazing.
I didn't have a conversation with one of these teenagers or young adults and say, tell me your story.
What's God doing in your life?
I'm evidence of the fact that God is raising up a generation that loves Christ.
If I were to tell you my story, I would tell you the only reason I'm standing here today is because of the faithfulness and grace of God.
But I'll also say it's because men invested in my life, there were hardly men who poured into me, who saw something in me that I didn't even see in myself.
If there were a book written about this, this is what it would sound like.
There was a kid named Javan who was a knucklehead and a punk who showed up to CCA in 2005.
He was prideful and arrogant.
He was passionate, but that passion was completely misguided.
And people saw, oh, amen to that?
All right, cool.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Appreciate the reminder.
And someone saw something in that kid that he didn't see in himself.
And someone invested in him, and poured into him, and raised him up.
And my story would never be the same without that.
I've never seen a church invest in the next generation like this one.
I've never seen a church take the mission of God as seriously as this one.
So what does that mean for you?
You have a spiritual responsibility.
to pass on the legacy of a warrior to the next generation.
And I'll tell you this, you know God's gonna do it with or without you.
Did you know that?
This generation is gonna be raised up as warriors for Christ with or without you.
Jesus will build his church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it.
I promise you, the view is so much better from the field than it is from the sideline.
Maybe there's some of you today, God is calling you to step foot into the game to make a difference.
to pass on a legacy of faith to the next generation.
I'm so glad that David did that.
And he had every reason not to, didn't he?
Think about everything that David's gone through in the last couple of chapters.
Two rebellions, two civil wars, the death of his son, tragedy after tragedy after tragedy.
David had every reason to throw in the towel and just say, this is hopeless.
But he understood something about God.
The Lord often does his best work in the most hopeful looking situations.
Even in the midst of tragedy, God can bring revival.
And that happened right here in our own backyard just last year.
I want you to hear the story of the Matthew family and see how God can take something that causes such deep pain, God can take tragedy and turn it into revival.
Take a look at this.
I've been married to Jason for 20 years.
We were both introduced by our uncles
It was like God putting the chess pieces together.
I started exchanging emails, I talked on the phone with each other, and 11 months later we were married.
We both loved kids, and so we always knew that we wanted a big family.
Before we knew it, we all had all of our four kids.
Los Angeles is the oldest.
She was 15.
Caris is 14.
Rayma is 11, and Luke is nine.
So we have three girls and one boy.
God has blessed us with four beautiful children.
Sayla was my princess, my angel, my firstborn, my right hand.
She loved being a big sister.
She loved her family.
She loved her friends even more.
And she was good at everything she did.
You know, sometimes, you know, we would get busy in the evenings and she would, you know, do devotions with aggressive lanes.
read the Bible with them and worship with them and just pray and she would take care of them and without us even asking.
So she was the first child.
You wanted her to be perfect and I think that's kind of what motivated her to have that, you know, perfection attitude.
But later on you saw her that it just grew from, hey, I want to be perfect.
I want to serve God.
I want to have that spirit of excellence.
And so that was beautiful to see.
She dreamed about being part of the dance team at CCA, and she got to live that out.
That was her favorite place.
I love seeing her up there.
She has a very special glow.
I love seeing her live out her dream.
She called me on a Wednesday saying she was going to stay afterwards at school.
And as I pulled into the parking lot, normally I would have just got on my phone or listened to the radio.
But because we're in the middle of the fast, I just figured I would get out of the car and just start walking around the church building and the school and just start praying.
As I got behind the youth building, I felt an option to pray for revival, revival among the youth.
And so I didn't think anything about just start praying for revival and made it back to the car and Sailor met me at the car.
That was everyone coming.
So the next day, I left work at around five o'clock.
I got a phone call from a sailor's phone, actually.
And so I thought it was sailor.
I picked up the phone and it was one of her teachers.
And she's like, my name's Miss Fox.
I'm in the ambulance with her daughter.
She's had a allergic reaction backstage and we're on our way to the hospital.
They landed on my truck.
When I went back into the ER, I saw at least a dozen medical professionals working on Salem.
That's when I realized how serious she was.
Maybe about 15 minutes later, Smith will
came walking in and I just looked around the eyes and said, now's not the time to panic.
This is the time to break.
And we held each other's hand.
And from that minute, we started praying.
But as we were waiting, even after we got into the ICU floor and we couldn't go in while they were still stabilizing her, we could see through the glass door.
On the other side, the CCA community
and the church community.
There's probably about 50, 60 people standing outside and a lot of her friends came to the hospital and came into the room and prayed for Salem.
A lot of times I was there first time praying in front of anybody else.
And I remember some of the ladies that came and anointed her with oil and prayed.
And I was learning how to pray as I was watching these ladies pray powerful prayers.
A few days later, Denise Taylor had put out an announcement that she needs our prayers.
And then she organized on the following Tuesday, the prayer by the flagpole.
We thought, all these prayers must mean something, Lord, that you have a plan to resurrect her.
And then she's gonna have such a big testimony to tell others.
So slowly it started setting in that we weren't going to see the resurrection that we had prayed for.
And so they had taken their time doing rounds that morning just to give us more time with Salah, but around noon they came in the room.
They took her off the ventilator and it's really hard to explain on one hand as a father.
You're so disappointed to experience that loss.
But after a week of being in the hospital, we knew that we knew that God's presence was with us.
And even though it didn't make sense with our minds, we almost felt like God's arms were wrapped around us at that time.
But I think he had the best plan.
He knows what is needed.
And he didn't let any of those prayers be wasted, even though we didn't see Salah.
being raised here on Earth.
She was raised into new life in heaven.
She got to be in her favorite place with her Heavenly Father.
We can completely heal and completely heal.
And we've imagined as a family that she is dancing away.
Weeks after, we realized a lot of the kids had the same questions as her friends.
And I was asked by Pastor Bill at the school.
I wanted to lead some chapels with him and answer some of the kids' questions.
I realized from the beginning that we had to walk this walk with a lot of our friends.
It kind of forced me to open up and to talk about my struggles and my disappointment laying them at God's feet, even when our emotions don't line up with our expectations.
God's word is still His word, and it's something that we could stand on.
I believe 20 kids came forward and gave their lives to Christ.
on the day of her memorial.
So the kids had this urgency in their heart.
They felt that they wanted to be baptized right away.
When Sela went to be with the Lord, we realized that she had left everything behind.
There wasn't even one thing that she took with her.
He allowed her life to make such a change.
A small little seed that went into the ground and he allowed her to become this big tree that's giving life to others.
I remember sitting on the stage during that last chapel and remembering that I prayed for a revival.
It was totally different than what I had pictured being, but I knew that God was answering that prayer.
It was a verse in Acts 13 where we were talking about David and how he served the purposes of God, fulfilled the purposes of God.
and slept, and I felt like God was telling me that I could insert a sailor's name in there.
She fulfilled the purposes of God in her generation.
I think that's what she would tell each and every one of us, you know, are we, whether we're going to live to 15 or 50 or 100?
Are we fulfilling the purposes of God in our generation?
You know, something that Jason said at the end of that video that stood out to me.
He said, whether we live to be 15, 50, or 100, are we fulfilling the purposes of God in our generation?
You know, Sala left a legacy of faith, a legacy of joy that will live on forever.
So we'll end the same way that we began.
What kind of legacy do you want to leave?
You might be here today asking questions, trying to figure out your purpose in life.
You might have every reason right now to throw in the towel and give up.
Don't give up.
Don't quit.
Because even in the midst of the tragedies of our world today, the kingdom of God is still on the move.
Let's pray.
God Almighty Jesus Christ, our Savior and our King, we thank you for your goodness and your grace to us.
Thank you for the cross.
Thank you for the resurrection that gives us life and victory.
Oh, death, where is your sting?
Oh, hell, where is your victory?
It is gone because of what Jesus has done.
So we declare the praises of him who called us out of darkness and into his marvelous light.
We thank you for the resurrection power that lives within us, the same power that rose Jesus from the dead.
So Lord, give us the endurance, help us to fix our eyes on you, the author and finisher of our faith.
Help us to carry the gospel wherever we go to our workplaces, our homes, our neighborhoods, our schools.
Jesus light us on fire with the passion of the gospel, that we will proclaim your name, that many would come to know you.
Lord, we pray, do it again.
The revivals that we've seen of old, the revivals in this country, and around the world, God, do it again, do it again, do it again.
Let us see revival with our own eyes, and we will give you all the praise and all the glory.
In Jesus' name we pray.
And everyone said?
Amen, amen, amen.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word belief to 31352, so you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.